These promises are fair, theparties sure,
and our induction full ofprosperous hope.
Lord Mortimer and cousinGlendower,
will you sit down?
And uncle Worcester.
A plague upon it.
I have forgot the map.
No, here it is.
Sit, cousin Percy.
Sit, good cousin Hotspur.
For by that name as oft asLancaster doth speak of you,
his cheek looks pale,
and with a rising sigh, hewisheth you in heaven.
And you in hell
as oft as he hears OwenGlendower spoke of.
I cannot blame him.
At my nativity, the front ofheaven
was full of fiery shapes, ofburning cressets.
And at my birth, the frame andhuge foundation
of the earth shaked like acoward.
Why, so it would have done atthe same season
if your mother's cat had butkittened,
though yourself had never beenborn.
I say the earth did shake when Iwas born.
And I say the earth was not ofmy mind,
if you suppose as fearing you itshook.
The heavens were all on fire.The earth did tremble.
Oh, then the earth shook to seethe heavens on fire
and not in fear of yournativity.
Cousin, of many men I do notbear these crossings.
Give me leave to tell you onceagain
that at my birth,
the front of heaven was full offiery shapes.
The goats ran from themountains,
and the herds were strangelyclamorous
to the frighted fields.
These signs have mark'd meextraordinary!
I think there's no man speaksbetter Welsh.
I'll to dinner.
Peace, cousin Percy.
You will make him mad.
I can call spirits from thevasty deep!
Why, so can I, or so can anyman.
But will they come when you docall for them?
Why, I can teach you, cousin, tocommand the devil.
And I can teach thee, coz, toshame the devil
by telling truth.
Tell truth and shame the devil.
If thou have power to raise him,bring him hither,
and I'll be sworn I have thepower to shame him hence.
O, while you live, tell truthand shame the devil!
Come, come; no more of thisunprofitable chat.
Three times hath HenryBolingbroke
made head against my power.
Thrice from the banks of Wye andsandy-bottom'd Severn
have I sent him bootless homeand weather-beaten back.
Home without boots, and in foulweather too.
How 'scapes he agues, in thedevil's name?
Come! Here is the map.
Shall we divide our right
according to our threefold orderta'en?
The archdeacon hath divided itinto three limits very equally:
England, from Trent and Severnhitherto,
by south and east is to my partassign'd.
All westward, Wales beyond theSevern shore
and all the fertile lands withinthat bound,
to Owen Glendower.
And, dear coz, to you
the remnant northward, lying offfrom Trent.
And our indentures tripartiteare drawn,
which being sealedinterchangeably,
a business that this night mayexecute,
tomorrow, cousin Percy, you andI
and my good Lord of Worcesterwill set forth
to meet your father and theScottish power,
as is appointed us, atShrewsbury.
My father Glendower is not readyyet,
nor shall we need his help thesefourteen days.
Within that space, you may havedrawn together
your tenants, friends, andneighboring gentlemen.
Methinks my moiety, north fromBurton here,
in quantity equals not one ofyours.
See how this river comes mecranking in
and cuts me from the best of allmy land
a huge half-moon, a monstrouscantle out.
I'll have the current in thisplace damm'd up.
And here the smug and silverTrent
shall run in a new channel, fairand evenly.
It shall not wind with such adeep indent
to rob me of so rich a bottomhere.
Not wind?
It shall. It must.
You see it doth.
Yea, but mark how he bears hiscourse
and runs me up with likeadvantage
on the other side,
gelding the opposed continent asmuch as on the other side,
it takes from you.
Yea, but a little charge willtrench him here
and on this north side win thiscape of land.
And then he runs straight andeven.
I'll have it so.
A little charge will do it.
I'll not have it alter'd.
Will not you?
No, nor you shall not.
Who shall say me nay?
Why, that will I.
Let me not understand you, then;speak it in Welsh.
I can speak English, lord, aswell as you,
for I was train'd up in theEnglish court,
where, being but young, I framedto the harp
many an English ditty lovelywell
and gave the tongue a helpfulornament,
a virtue that was never seen inyou.
Marry, and I'm glad of it withall my heart.
I'd rather be a kitten and crymew
than one of these same meterballad-mongers.
I'd rather hear a brazencanstick turn'd
or a dry wheel grate on theaxle-tree.
And that would set my teethnothing on edge,
nothing so much as mincingpoetry.
'Tis like the forced gait of ashuffling nag.
Come; you shall have Trentturn'd.
I do not care.
I'll give thrice so much land toany well-deserving friend.
But in the way of bargain, markye me,
I'll cavil on the ninth part ofa hair.
Are the indentures drawn?
Shall we be gone?
The moon shines fair.
You may away by night.
I'll haste the writer and withalbreak with your wives
of your departure hence.
I am afraid my daughter will runmad,
so much she doteth on herMortimer.
Fie, cousin Percy.
How you cross my father.
I cannot choose.
Sometimes he angers me
with telling me of the mouldwarpand the ant
and such a deal ofskimble-skamble stuff
as puts me from my faith.
I tell you what; he held me lastnight
at least nine hours in reckoningup
the several devils' names thatwere his lackeys.
I cried "hum" and "well, go to"
and mark'd him not a word.
Oh, he's as tedious as a tiredhorse,
a railing wife, worse than asmoky house.
I'd rather live with cheese andgarlic in a windmill, far,
than feed on cates and have himtalk to me
in any summer-house inChristendom.
In faith, he is a worthygentleman,
exceedingly well read
and profited in strangeconcealments,
valiant as a lion, and wondrousaffable
and bountiful as mines of India.
Shall I tell you, cousin?
He holds your temper in a highrespect
and curbs himself even of hisnatural scope
when you come 'cross his humor.
Faith, he does.
I warrant you, that man is notalive
might so have tempted him as youhave done
without the taste of danger andreproof.
But do not use it oft, let meentreat you.
In faith, my lord, you are toowillful-blame
and, since your coming hither,have done enough
to put him quite beside hispatience.
You must needs learn, lord, toamend this fault.
Well, I am school'd.
Good manners be your speed.
Here come our wives.
Let us take our leave.
This is the deadly spite thatangers me.
My wife can speak no English, Ino Welsh.
My daughter weeps.
She'll not part with you.
She'll be a soldier too.
She'll to the wars.
Good father, tell her that sheand my aunt Percy
shall follow in your conductspeedily.
She is desperate here--
a peevish self-willed harlotry,
one that no persuasion can dogood upon.
I understand thy looks.
That pretty Welsh which thoupour'st down
from these swelling heavens I amtoo perfect in.
And, but for shame,
in such a parley should I answerthee.
I understand thy kisses and thoumine,
and that's a feelingdisputation.
But I will never be a truant,love,
till I have learned thylanguage,
for thy tongue makes Welsh assweet
as ditties highly penn'd,
sung by a fair queen in asummer's bower,
with ravishing division, to herlute.
Nay, if you melt, then will sherun mad.
Oh, I am ignorance itself inthis!
She bids you on the wantonrushes lay you down
and rest your gentle head uponher lap,
and she will sing the song thatpleaseth you
and on your eyelids crown thegod of sleep,
charming your blood withpleasing heaviness,
making such difference 'twixtwake and sleep
as is the difference betwixt dayand night
the hour before theheavenly-harness'd team
begins his golden progress inthe east.
With all my heart, I'll sit andhear her sing.
By that time will our book, Ithink, be drawn.
Do so.
And those musicians that shallplay to you
hang in the air a thousandleagues from hence,
and straight they shall be here.
Sit, and attend.
Come, Kate.
Thou art perfect in lying down.
Quick, quick, that I may lay myhead in thy lap.
Oh, go, ye giddy goose.
Now I perceive the devilunderstands Welsh.
And 'tis no marvel he's sohumorous.
By'r lady,,he is a goodmusician.
Yes.
Then should you be nothing butmusical,
for you are altogether governedby humors.
Lie still, ye thief,
and hear the lady sing in Welsh.
I had rather hear, lady, mybrach, howl in Irish.
Oh, wouldst thou have thy headbroken?
-No. -Then be still.
Neither. 'Tis a woman's fault.
Now God help thee.
To the Welsh lady's bed.
What's that?
Peace, she sings.
Come, Kate. I'll have your songtoo.
Not mine, in good sooth.
Not yours, in good sooth?
Heart, you swear like acomfit-maker's wife.
"Not you, in good sooth," and"as sure as I live"
and "as God shall mend me," and"as sure as day"
and givest such sarcenet suretyfor thy oaths
as if thou never walk'st furtherthan Finsbury.
Swear me, Kate, like a lady asthou art,
a good mouth-filling oath, andleave "in sooth"
and such protest ofpepper-gingerbread
to velvet-guards andSunday-citizens.
Come, sing.
I will not sing.
'Tis the next way to turn tailor
or be red-breast teacher.
An the indentures be drawn,
I'll away within these twohours.
And so come in when ye will.
Come, come, Lord Mortimer.
You are as slow as hot LordPercy is on fire to go.
By this our book is drawn.
We'll but seal, and then tohorse immediately.
With all my heart.
I know not whether God will haveit so,
for some displeasing service Ihave done,
that, in his secret doom, out ofmy blood
he'll breed revengement and ascourge for me.
But thou dost in thy passages oflife
make me believe that thou artonly mark'd
for the hot vengeance and therod of heaven
to punish my mistreadings.
Tell me else,
could such inordinate and lowdesires,
such poor, such bare, such lewd,such mean attempts,
such barren pleasures, rudesociety
as thou art match'd withal andgrafted to
accompany the greatness of thyblood
and hold their level with thyprincely heart?
So please your majesty, I wouldI could quit
all offenses with as clearexcuse
as well as I am doubtless I canpurge myself
of many I am charged withal.
God pardon thee.
Yet let me wonder, Harry, at thyaffections,
which do hold a wing quite fromthe flight
of all thy ancestors.
Thy place in council, thou hastrudely lost
which by thy younger brother issupplied
and art almost an alien to thehearts
of all the court and princes ofmy blood.
The hope and expectation of thytime is ruin'd,
and the soul of every man
prophetically do forethink thyfall.
Had I so lavish of my presencebeen,
so common-hackney'd in the eyesof men,
so stale and cheap to vulgarcompany,
opinion, that did help me to thecrown,
had still kept loyal topossession
and left me in reputelessbanishment,
a fellow of no mark norlikelihood.
By being seldom seen, I couldnot stir
but like a comet I was wonder'dat,
that men would tell theirchildren, "This is he."
Others would say, "Where? Whichis Bolingbroke?"
And then I stole all courtesyfrom heaven
and dress'd myself in suchhumility
that I did pluck allegiance frommen's hearts,
loud shouts and salutations fromtheir mouths,
even in the presence of thecrowned king.
Thus did I keep my person freshand new.
My presence, like a robepontifical,
ne'er seen but wonder'd at.
And so my state, seldom butsumptuous,
showed like a feast and won byrareness such solemnity.
The skipping king, he ambled upand down
with shallow jesters and rashbavin wits,
soon kindled and soon burnt.
Carded his state,
mingled his royalty withcapering fools,
had his great name profaned withtheir scorns,
and gave his countenance,against his name,
to laugh at gibing boys andstand the push
of every beardless vaincomparative,
grew a companion to the commonstreets,
enfeoff'd himself to popularity
that, being daily swallow'd bymen's eyes,
they surfeited with honey andbegan to loathe
the taste of sweetness,
whereof a little more than alittle
is by much too much.
So when he had occasion to beseen,
he was but as the cuckoo is inJune:
heard, not regarded; seen, butwith such eyes
as, sick and blunted withcommunity,
afford no extraordinary gaze,
such as is bent on sun-likemajesty
when it shines seldom inadmiring eyes,
but rather drowzed and hungtheir eyelids down,
slept in his face, and render'dsuch aspect
as cloudy men use to theiradversaries,
being with his presence glutted,gorged, and full.
And in that very line, Harry,standest thou,
for thou has lost thy princelyprivilege
with vile participation.
Not an eye But is a-weary of thycommon sight, save mine,
which hath desired to see theemore,
which now doth that I would nothave it do:
make blind itself with foolishtenderness.
I shall hereafter, my thricegracious lord,
be more myself.
For all the world as thou art tothis hour
was Richard then,
when I from France set foot atRavenspurgh.
And even as I was then is Percynow.
Now, by my scepter and my soulto boot,
he hath more worthy interest tothe state
than thou the shadow ofsuccession,
for of no right, nor color liketo right,
he doth fill fields with harnessin the realm,
turns head against the lion'sarmed jaws,
and, being no more in debt toyears than thou,
leads ancient lords and reverendbishops on
to bloody battles and tobruising arms.
What never-dying honor hath hegot
against renowned Douglas, whosehigh deeds,
whose hot incursions and greatname in arms
holds from all soldiers chiefmajority
and military title capital
through all the kingdoms thatacknowledge Christ.
And what say you to this?
Percy, Northumberland, theArchbishop's grace of York,
Douglas, Mortimer,
capitulate against us and areup.
But wherefore do I tell thee ofthose news?
Why, Harry, do I tell thee of myfoes,
which art my near'st and dearestenemy?
Thou that art like enough,through vassal fear,
base inclination, and the startof spleen
to fight against me underPercy's pay,
to dog his heelsand curtsy athis frowns,
to show how much thou artdegenerate!
Do not think so.
You shall not find it so.
And God forgive them that somuch have sway'd
your majesty's good thoughtsaway from me.
I will redeem all this onPercy's head
and, in the closing of someglorious day,
be bold to tell you that I amyour son,
when I will wear a garment allof blood
and stain my favors in a bloodymask,
which, wash'd away, shall scourmy shame with it.
And that shall be the day,whene'er it lights,
that this same child of honorand renown,
this gallant Hotspur, thisall-praised knight
and your unthought-of Harrychance to meet.
For every honor sitting on hishelm,
would they were multitudes
and on my head my shamesredoubled.
For the time will come
that I shall make this northernyouth
exchange his glorious deeds formy indignities.
Percy is but my factor, good mylord,
to engross up glorious deeds onmy behalf.
And I will call him to so strictaccount
that he shall render every gloryup--
yea, even the slightest worshipof his time--
or I will tear the reckoningfrom his heart.
This, in the name of God, Ipromise here,
the which if he be pleased, Ishall perform,
I do beseech your majesty maysalve
the long-grown wounds of myintemperture.
If not, the end of life cancelsall bands,
and I will die a hundredthousand deaths
ere break the smallest parcel ofthis vow.
A hundred thousand rebels die inthis,
thou shalt have charge andsovereign trust herein.
Oh, Bardolph.
Huh?
Am I not fallen away vilelysince this last action?
Do I not bate?
Do I not dwindle?
My skin hangs about me
like an like an old lady's loosegown.
I am withered like an oldapple-john.
Well, I'll repent, and thatsuddenly,
while I'm in some liking.
I shall be out of heart shortly,
and then I shall have nostrength to repent.
An I've not forgotten what theinside of a church is made of.
I'm a peppercorn, a brewer'shorse.
The inside of a church.
Company, villainous company,hath been the spoil of me.
Sir John, you are so fretful,you cannot live long.
Why, there is it.
Come sing me a bawdy song.
Make me merry.
Oh--
Oh, no, it's--
I've been as virtuously given asa gentleman need to be,
virtuous enough.
Swore little, diced not aboveseven times a week,
went to a bawdy-house not aboveonce in a quarter...
of an hour,
paid money that I borrowed threeor four times,
lived well and in good compass.
And now I live out of all order,out of all compass.
You are so fat, Sir John,
you must needs be out of allcompass,
out of all reasonable...
compass, Sir John.
Do thou amend thy face, and I'llamend my life.
Thou art our admiral.
Thou bearest the lantern in thepoop,
but 'tis in the nose of thee.
Thou art the Knight of theBurning Lamp.
Why, Sir John, my face does youno harm.
No, I'll be sworn.
I make as good use of it as manya man doth
of a Death's-head or a mementomori.
I never see thy face but I thinkof hell-fire
and Dives that lived in purple,
for there he is in his robes,burning, burning.
Oh, thou art a perpetualtriumph,
an everlasting bonfire-light.
Thou hast saved me a thousandmarks
in links and torches, walkingwith thee
in the night betwixt tavern andtavern.
But the sack that thou hastdrunk me
would have bought me lights asgood cheap
at the dearest chandler's inEurope.
I have maintained thatsalamander of yours
with fire any time this two andthirty years.
God reward me for it.
'Sblood, I would my face were inyour belly!
God-a-mercy!
So should I be sure to beheart-burned.
How now, Dame Partlet the hen.
Have you inquired yet who pickedmy pocket?
Why, what do you think, SirJohn?
Do you think I keep thieves inmy house?
I have searched.
I have inquired
man by man, boy by boy, servantby servant.
The tithe of a hair was neverlost in my house before.
Ye lie, hostess.
Bardolph was shaved and lostmany a hair.
And I'll be sworn my pocket waspicked.
Go to. You're a woman; go.
Who, I?
No, I defy thee.
God's light, I was never calledso
in mine own house before.
Go to. I know you well enough.
No, Sir John.
You do not know me, Sir John.
I know you, Sir John.
You owe me money, Sir John,
and now you pick a quarrel tobeguile me of it.
I bought you a dozen of shirtsto your back.
Dowlas, filthy dowlas.
I gave them away to bakers'wives,
and they have made bolters ofthem.
Oh!
Now, as I'm a true woman,
holland of eight shillings anell.
You owe money here besides, SirJohn,
for your diet and by-drinkingsand money lent you,
four and twenty pound.
He had his share of it; let himpay.
He?
Alas, he's poor. He has nothing.
How, poor?
Look at his face; what call yourich?
Let them coin his nose.
Let them coin his cheeks.
I'll not pay a denier.
What, will you make a younker ofme?
Shall I not take mine ease inmine inn
but I shall have my pocketpicked?
I have lost a seal-ring of mygrandfather's
was worth forty mark.
Jesu, I have heard the princetell him,
I know not how oft, that thatring was copper!
How?
The prince is a Jack, asneak-cup.
'Sblood, an he were here, I'dcudgel him like a dog
if he should say so.
How now, lad.
Is the wind in that door, i'faith?
Must we all march?
Ay, two and two, Newgatefashion.
My lord, will you hear me?
Let her alone, and list to me.
What sayest thou, Jack?
The other night, I fell asleephere
behind the arras and had mypocket picked.
This house is turnedbawdy-house.
They pick pockets.
What didst thou lose, Jack?
Wilt thou believe it, Hal?
Three or four bonds worth fortypound apiece
and a seal-ring of mygrandfather's.
A trifle, some eight-pennymatter.
So I told him, my lord,
and I said that I heard yourgrace say so.
And, my lord, he speaks mostvilely of you,
like a foul-mouthed man as heis,
and said he would cudgel you.
What?
He did not.
There's neither faith, truth,nor womanhood in me else.
There's no more faith in theethan in a stewed prune.
Go, you thing, go.
Say, what thing?
What thing?
Well, a thing to thank God on.
Oh, I'm no thing to thank Godon.
And, setting thy knighthoodaside,
thou art a knave to say so.
Setting thy womanhood aside,
thou art a beast to sayotherwise.
Say, what beast, thou knave,thou?
What beast? Why, an otter.
Oh!
An otter, Sir John?
Why an otter?
Well, because she's neither fishnor flesh,
and a man knows not where tohave her.
Thou art an unjust man to sayso.
Thou or any man know where tohave me!
Thou knave, thou!
Thou sayest true, hostess,
and he slanders thee mostgrossly.
Charge an honest woman withpicking thy pocket?
Why, thou whoreson, impudent,embossed rascal.
If there were anything in thypocket
but tavern-reckonings,memorandums of bawdy-houses,
and one poor penny-worth ofsugar-candy
to make thee long-winded, if thypockets were enriched
with any other injuries butthese, I am a villain.
You will confess then, that youpicked my pocket?
It appears so by the story.
Hostess, I forgive thee.
Go, make ready breakfast.
Cherish thy servants, and lookto thy guests.
Nay, prithee, be gone.
Now Hal, to the news at court.
For the robbery, lad, how isthat answered?
Oh, my sweet beef, I must stillbe good angel to thee.
The money is paid back again.
Oh, I like not that paying back.
'Tis a double labor.
I'm good friends with my fatherand may do any thing.
Rob me the exchequer the firstthing thou doest.
Do, my lord.
I have procured thee, Jack, acharge...
of foot.
-Bardolph! -My lord?
Go bear this letter to Lord Johnof Lancaster,
to my brother John, this to myLord of Westmoreland.
Jack, meet me tomorrow in thetemple hall
at two o'clock in the afternoon.
There shalt thy know thy charge,
and there receive money andorder for their furniture.
The land is burning,
Percy stands on high,
and either we or they must lowerlie.
Rare words.
Brave world.
Hostess, my breakfast.
Come.
Oh, I could wish this tavernwere my drum.
Well said, my noble Scot.
If speaking truth in this fineage
were not thought flattery,
such attribution should theDouglas have,
as not a soldier of thisseason's stamp
should go so general currentthrough the world.
By God, I cannot flatter.
I do defy the tongues ofsoothers.
But a braver place in my heart'slove
hath no man than yourself.
Nay, task me to my word.
Approve me, lord.
Thou art the king of honor.
No man more potent breathes uponthe ground
but I will beard him.
Do so, and 'tis well.
What letters hast thou there?
I can but thank you.
These letters come from yourfather.
Letters from him?
Why comes he not himself?
He cannot come, my lord; he isgrievous sick.
'Zounds, how has he the leisureto be sick
in such a justling time?
Who leads his power?
Under whose government come theyalong?
His letters bear his mind, mylord, not I.
I prithee, tell me, doth he keephis bed?
He did, my lord, four days ere Iset forth.
And at the time of my departurethence,
he was much fear'd by hisphysicians.
I would the state of time hadfirst been whole
ere he by sickness had beenvisited.
His health was never betterworth than now.
Sick now.
Droop now?
This sickness doth infect thevery life-blood
of our enterprise.
'Tis catching hither, even toour camp.
He writes me here that inwardsickness--
and that his friends could notby deputation
so soon be drawn, nor did hethink it meet
to lay so dangerous and dear atrust
on any soul removed but on hisown.
Yet doth he give us boldadvertisement
that with our small conjunctionwe should on
to see how fortune is disposedto us,
for, as he writes, there is noquailing now.
Because the king is certainlypossess'd
of all our purposes.
What say you to it?
Your father's sickness is a maimto us.
A perilous gash, a very limblopp'd off.
And yet, in faith, it is not.
I rather of his absence makethis use.
It lends a luster and more greatopinion,
a larger dare to our greatenterprise
than if the earl were here, formen must think,
if we without his help can makea head
to push against a kingdom, withhis help,
we can o'erturn it topsy-turvydown.
Yet all goes well.
Yet all our joints are whole.
As heart can think.
There's not a word spoke of inScotland
as this term of fear.
My cousin Vernon, welcome, by mysoul.
Pray God my news be worth awelcome, lord.
The Earl of Westmoreland, seventhousand strong,
is marching hitherwards; withhim, Prince John.
No harm. What more?
And further, I have learn'd,
the king himself in person isset forth,
or hitherwards intendedspeedily,
with strong and mightypreparation.
He shall be welcome too.
Where is his son,
the nimble-footed madcap Princeof Wales,
and his comrades that daff'd theworld aside
and bid it pass?
All furnish'd, all in arms, allplumed like estridges
that with the wind baited likeeagles having lately bathed,
glittering in golden coats likeimages,
as full of spirit as the monthof May
and gorgeous as the sun atmidsummer
wanton as youthful goats, wildas young bulls.
I saw young Harry with hisbeaver on,
his cuisses on his thighs,gallantly arm'd
rise from the ground likefeather'd Mercury
and vaulted with such ease intohis seat
as if an angel dropp'd down fromthe clouds
to turn and wind a fiery Pegasus
and witch the world with noblehorsemanship.
No more, no more.
Worse than the sun in March,this praise doth nourish agues.
Let them come.
They come like sacrifices intheir trim.
And to the fire-eyed maid ofsmoky war,
all hot and bleeding, shall weoffer them.
The mailed Mars shall on hisaltar sit
up to the ears in blood.
I am on fire to hear this richreprisal is so nigh
and yet not ours.
Come; let me taste my horse,
who is to bear me like athunderbolt
against the bosom of the Princeof Wales.
Harry to Harry shall, hot horseto horse,
meet and ne'er part till onedrop down a corse.
O that Glendower were come!
There is more news.
I learn'd in Worcester, as Irode along,
he cannot draw his power thisfourteen days.
These are the worst tidings Ihear of yet.
Ay, my faith, that bears afrosty sound.
What may the king's whole battlereach unto?
To thirty thousand.
Forty, let it be.
My father and Glendower beingboth away,
the powers of us may serve sogreat a day.
Come; let us take a musterspeedily.
Doomsday is near.
Die all.
Die merrily.
Talk not of dying.
I'm out of fear of death ordeath's hand
this one-half year.
Bardolph, get thee before toCoventry.
Fill me a bottle of sack.
Our soldiers shall marchthrough.
We'll to Sutton Co'fil' tonight.
Bardolph, bid my lieutenant Petomeet me at the town's end.
Will you give me money,captain?
Lay out. Lay out.
This bottle makes an angel.
An if it do, take it for thylabor.
And if it make twenty, take themall.
I'll answer the coinage.
I will, captain. Farewell!
Farewell.
If I be not ashamed of mysoldiers,
I'm a soused gurnet.
I have misused the king's pressdamnably.
I have got, in exchange of ahundred and fifty soldiers,
three hundred and odd pound.
I press me none but goodhouse-holders,
yeoman's sons,
inquire me out contractedbachelors
such as had been asked twice onthe banns,
such a commodity of warm slaves
as had as lieve hear the devilas a drum,
such as fear the report of acaliver worse
than a struck fowl or a hurtwild-duck.
I pressed me none but suchtoasts-and-butter,
with hearts in their bellies nobigger than pins' heads,
and they...
have bought out their services.
And now my whole charge consists
of discarded unjust serving-men,
the younger sons of youngerbrothers,
revolted tapsters and ostlerstrade-fallen,
the cankers of a calm world anda long peace.
Such have I, to fill up therooms of them
that have bought out theirservices,
that you'd think that I had
a hundred and fifty tatteredprodigals lately come
from swine-keeping, from eatingdraff and husks.
A mad fellow met me on the wayand told me
I had unloaded all the gibbetsand pressed the dead bodies.
No eye hath seen suchscarecrows.
I'll not march through Coventrywith them; that's flat.
How now, blown Jack!
What, Hal!
How now, mad wag!
What a devil dost thou inWarwickshire?
My Lord of Westmoreland, I cryyour honor mercy.
I thought you had already beenat Shrewsbury.
In faith, Sir John,
'tis more than time that I werethere, and you too.
But my powers are there already.
The king, I can tell you, looksfor us all.
We must away all night.
Tut, man, never fear me.
I'm as vigilant as a cat tosteal cream.
I think to steal cream indeed,
for thy theft hath already madethee butter.
But tell me, Jack, whose fellowsare these?
Mine, Hal, mine.
I did never see, such pitifulrascals.
Oh, tut, tut, man.
Good enough to toss.
Food for powder. Food forpowder.
Well, they'll fill a pits aswell as better.
Tush, man, mortal men, mortalmen.
Ay, but, Sir John, methinks theyare
exceeding poor and bare, toobeggarly.
'Faith, for their poverty, Iknow not how they came by that.
And for their bareness,
I'm sure they never learned thatof me.
No, I'll be sworn,
unless you call three fingers inthe ribs bare.
Sirrah, make haste.
Percy is already in the field!
What, is the king encamped?
He is, Sir John.
I fear we shall stay too long!
Well, to the latter end of afray
and the beginning of a feast
fits a dull fighter and a keenguest.